---
title: Creating Webhooks | GitHub API
layout: webhooks
---

# Creating Webhooks

* TOC
{:toc}

At their core, webhooks are events generated by GitHub that deliver a payload of
information about activity in a repository. Webhooks can trigger across several
different actions. For example, you can fire a payload of information any time
a commit is made, a repository is forked, or an issue is created.

In this tutorial, our webhook will be responsible for listing out how popular our
repository is, based on the number of Issues it receives per day.

Creating a webhook is a two-step process. You'll first need to set up how you want
your webhook to behave through GitHub--what events should it listen to. After that,
you'll set up your server to receive and manage the payload.

## Setting up a Webhook

To set up a webhook on GitHub, head over to the **Settings** page of your repository,
and click on **Webhooks & services**. After that, click on **Add webhook**.

Alternatively, you can choose to build and manage a webhook [through the Webhooks API][webhook-api].

Webhooks require a few configuration options before you can use of them.
We'll go through each of these settings below.

## Payload URL

This is the server endpoint that will receive the webhook payload.

Since we're developing locally for our tutorial, let's set it to `http://localhost:4567/payload`.
We'll explain why in the [Configuring Your Server](/webhooks/configuring/) docs.

## Content Type

Webhooks can be delivered using different content types:

- The `application/json` content type will deliver the JSON payload directly as the body of the POST.
- The `application/x-www-form-urlencoded` content type will send the JSON payload as a form parameter
  called "payload".

Choose the one that best fits your needs. For this tutorial, the default content type of
`application/json` is fine.

## Events

Events are at the core of webhooks. These webhooks fire whenever a certain action is
taken on the repository, which your server's payload URL intercepts and acts upon.

A full list of webhook events, and when they execute, can be found in [the webhooks API][hooks-api] reference.

Since our webhook is dealing with Issues in a repository, we'll click on **Issues**,
and toggle the options there.

When you're finished, click on **Add webhook**. Phew! Now that the webhook is created,
it's time to set up our local server to test the webhook. Head on over to
[Configuring Your Server](/webhooks/configuring/) to learn how to do that.

[webhook-api]: /v3/repos/hooks/
[hooks-api]: /webhooks/#events
