---
title: GitHub API v3
---

# Overview

This describes the resources that make up the official GitHub API v3. If you have any problems or requests please contact
[support][].

* TOC
{:toc}

## Current Version

By default, all requests receive the **v3** [version](/v3/versions) of the API.
We encourage you to [explicitly request this version via the `Accept` header](/v3/media/#request-specific-version).

    Accept: application/vnd.github.v3+json

## Schema

All API access is over HTTPS, and accessed from the `api.github.com`
domain (or through `yourdomain.com/api/v3/` for enterprise).  All data is
sent and received as JSON.

<pre class="terminal">
$ curl -i https://api.github.com/users/octocat/orgs

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Server: nginx
Date: Fri, 12 Oct 2012 23:33:14 GMT
Content-Type: application/json; charset=utf-8
Connection: keep-alive
Status: 200 OK
ETag: "a00049ba79152d03380c34652f2cb612"
X-GitHub-Media-Type: github.v3
X-RateLimit-Limit: 5000
X-RateLimit-Remaining: 4987
X-RateLimit-Reset: 1350085394
Content-Length: 5
Cache-Control: max-age=0, private, must-revalidate
X-Content-Type-Options: nosniff

[]
</pre>

Blank fields are included as `null` instead of being omitted.

All timestamps are returned in ISO 8601 format:

    YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SSZ

### Summary Representations

When you fetch a list of resources, the response includes a _subset_ of the
attributes for that resource. This is the "summary" representation of the
resource. (Some attributes are computationally expensive for the API to provide.
For performance reasons, the summary representation excludes those attributes.
To obtain those attributes, fetch the "detailed" representation.)

**Example**: When you get a list of repositories, you get the summary
representation of each repository. Here, we fetch the list of repositories owned
by the [octokit](https://github.com/octokit) organization:

    GET /orgs/octokit/repos

### Detailed Representations

When you fetch an individual resource, the response typically includes _all_
attributes for that resource. This is the "detailed" representation of the
resource. (Note that authorization sometimes influences the amount of detail
included in the representation.)

**Example**: When you get an individual repository, you get the detailed
representation of the repository. Here, we fetch the
[octokit/octokit.rb](https://github.com/octokit/octokit.rb) repository:

    GET /repos/octokit/octokit.rb

The documentation provides an example response for each API method. The example
response illustrates all attributes that are returned by that method.

## Parameters

Many API methods take optional parameters. For GET requests, any parameters not
specified as a segment in the path can be passed as an HTTP query string
parameter:

<pre class="terminal">
$ curl -i "https://api.github.com/repos/vmg/redcarpet/issues?state=closed"
</pre>

In this example, the 'vmg' and 'redcarpet' values are provided for the `:owner`
and `:repo` parameters in the path while `:state` is passed in the query
string.

For POST, PATCH, PUT, and DELETE requests, parameters not included in the URL should be encoded as JSON
with a Content-Type of 'application/json':

<pre class="terminal">
$ curl -i -u username -d '{"scopes":["public_repo"]}' https://api.github.com/authorizations
</pre>



## Client Errors

There are three possible types of client errors on API calls that
receive request bodies:

1. Sending invalid JSON will result in a `400 Bad Request` response.

        HTTP/1.1 400 Bad Request
        Content-Length: 35

        {"message":"Problems parsing JSON"}

2. Sending the wrong type of JSON values will result in a `400 Bad
   Request` response.

        HTTP/1.1 400 Bad Request
        Content-Length: 40

        {"message":"Body should be a JSON Hash"}

3. Sending invalid fields will result in a `422 Unprocessable Entity`
   response.

        HTTP/1.1 422 Unprocessable Entity
        Content-Length: 149

        {
          "message": "Validation Failed",
          "errors": [
            {
              "resource": "Issue",
              "field": "title",
              "code": "missing_field"
            }
          ]
        }

All error objects have resource and field properties so that your client
can tell what the problem is.  There's also an error code to let you
know what is wrong with the field.  These are the possible validation error
codes:


Error Name | Description
-----------|-----------|
`missing` | This means a resource does not exist.
`missing_field` | This means a required field on a resource has not been set.
`invalid` | This means the formatting of a field is invalid.  The documentation for that resource should be able to give you more specific information.
`already_exists` | This means another resource has the same value as this field.  This can happen in resources that must have some unique key (such as Label names).

If resources have custom validation errors, they will be documented with the resource.

## HTTP Redirects

API v3 uses HTTP redirection where appropriate. Clients should assume that any
request may result in a redirection. Receiving an HTTP redirection is *not* an
error and clients should follow that redirect. Redirect responses will have a
`Location` header field which contains the URI of the resource to which the
client should repeat the requests.

Status Code | Description
-----------|-----------|
`301` | Permanent redirection. The URI you used to make the request has been superseded by the one specified in the `Location` header field. This and all future requests to this resource should be directed to the new URI.
`302`, `307` | Temporary redirection. The request should be repeated verbatim to the URI specified in the `Location` header field but clients should continue to use the original URI for future requests.

Other redirection status codes may be used in accordance with the HTTP 1.1 spec.

## HTTP Verbs

Where possible, API v3 strives to use appropriate HTTP verbs for each
action.

Verb | Description
-----|-----------
`HEAD` | Can be issued against any resource to get just the HTTP header info.
`GET` | Used for retrieving resources.
`POST` | Used for creating resources, or performing custom actions (such as merging a pull request).
`PATCH` | Used for updating resources with partial JSON data.  For instance, an Issue resource has `title` and `body` attributes.  A PATCH request may accept one or more of the attributes to update the resource.  PATCH is a relatively new and uncommon HTTP verb, so resource endpoints also accept `POST` requests.
`PUT` | Used for replacing resources or collections. For `PUT` requests with no `body` attribute, be sure to set the `Content-Length` header to zero.
`DELETE` |Used for deleting resources.

## Authentication

There are three ways to authenticate through GitHub API v3.  Requests that
require authentication will return `404 Not Found`, instead of
`403 Forbidden`, in some places.  This is to prevent the accidental leakage
of private repositories to unauthorized users.

### Basic Authentication

<pre class="terminal">
$ curl -u "username" https://api.github.com
</pre>

### OAuth2 Token (sent in a header)

<pre class="terminal">
$ curl -H "Authorization: token OAUTH-TOKEN" https://api.github.com
</pre>

### OAuth2 Token (sent as a parameter)

<pre class="terminal">
$ curl https://api.github.com/?access_token=OAUTH-TOKEN
</pre>

Read [more about OAuth2](/v3/oauth/).  Note that OAuth2 tokens can be [acquired
programmatically](/v3/oauth_authorizations/#create-a-new-authorization), for applications that
are not websites.

### OAuth2 Key/Secret

<pre class="terminal">
$ curl 'https://api.github.com/users/whatever?client_id=xxxx&client_secret=yyyy'
</pre>

This should only be used in server to server scenarios.  Don't leak your
OAuth application's client secret to your users.  Read [more about
unauthenticated rate limiting](#unauthenticated-rate-limited-requests).

### Failed login limit

Authenticating with invalid credentials will return `401 Unauthorized`:

<pre class="terminal">
$ curl -i https://api.github.com -u foo:bar

HTTP/1.1 401 Unauthorized

{
  "message": "Bad credentials",
  "documentation_url": "https://developer.github.com/v3"
}
</pre>

After detecting several requests with invalid credentials within a short period,
the API will temporarily reject all authentication attempts for that user
(including ones with valid credentials) with `403 Forbidden`:

<pre class="terminal">
$ curl -i https://api.github.com -u valid_username:valid_password

HTTP/1.1 403 Forbidden

{
  "message": "Maximum number of login attempts exceeded. Please try again later.",
  "documentation_url": "https://developer.github.com/v3"
}
</pre>

## Hypermedia

All resources may have one or more `*_url` properties linking to other
resources.  These are meant to provide explicit URLs so that proper API clients
don't need to construct URLs on their own.  It is highly recommended that API
clients use these.  Doing so will make future upgrades of the API easier for
developers.  All URLs are expected to be proper [RFC 6570][rfc] URI templates.

You can then expand these templates using something like the [uri_template][uri]
gem:

    >> tmpl = URITemplate.new('/notifications{?since,all,participating}')
    >> tmpl.expand
    => "/notifications"

    >> tmpl.expand :all => 1
    => "/notifications?all=1"

    >> tmpl.expand :all => 1, :participating => 1
    => "/notifications?all=1&participating=1"

[rfc]: http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6570
[uri]: https://github.com/hannesg/uri_template

## Pagination

Requests that return multiple items will be paginated to 30 items by
default.  You can specify further pages with the `?page` parameter. For some
resources, you can also set a custom page size up to 100 with the `?per_page` parameter.
Note that for technical reasons not all endpoints respect the `?per_page` parameter,
see [events](https://developer.github.com/v3/activity/events/) for example.

<pre class="terminal">
$ curl 'https://api.github.com/user/repos?page=2&per_page=100'
</pre>

Note that page numbering is 1-based and that omitting the `?page`
parameter will return the first page.

For more information on pagination, check out our guide on [Traversing with Pagination][pagination-guide].

### Link Header

The pagination info is included in [the Link
header](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5988). It is important to
follow these Link header values instead of constructing your own URLs. In some
instances, such as in the [Commits
API](/v3/repos/commits/), pagination is based on
SHA1 and not on page number.

    Link: <https://api.github.com/user/repos?page=3&per_page=100>; rel="next",
      <https://api.github.com/user/repos?page=50&per_page=100>; rel="last"

_Linebreak is included for readability._

The possible `rel` values are:

Name | Description
-----------|-----------|
`next` |Shows the URL of the immediate next page of results.
`last` |Shows the URL of the last page of results.
`first` |Shows the URL of the first page of results.
`prev` |Shows the URL of the immediate previous page of results.

## Rate Limiting

For requests using Basic Authentication or OAuth, you can make up to 5,000
requests per hour. For unauthenticated requests, the rate limit allows you to
make up to 60 requests per hour. (The Search API has [custom rate limit
rules](/v3/search/#rate-limit).)

You can check the returned HTTP headers of any API request to see your current
rate limit status:

<pre class="terminal">
$ curl -i https://api.github.com/users/whatever

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 01 Jul 2013 17:27:06 GMT
Status: 200 OK
X-RateLimit-Limit: 60
X-RateLimit-Remaining: 56
X-RateLimit-Reset: 1372700873
</pre>

The headers tell you everything you need to know about your current rate limit status:

Header Name | Description
-----------|-----------|
`X-RateLimit-Limit` | The maximum number of requests that the consumer is permitted to make per hour.
`X-RateLimit-Remaining` | The number of requests remaining in the current rate limit window.
`X-RateLimit-Reset` | The time at which the current rate limit window resets in [UTC epoch seconds](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix_time).

If you need the time in a different format, any modern programming language can get the job done. For example, if you open up the console on your web browser, you can easily get the reset time as a JavaScript Date object.

<pre><code class="language-javascript">
new Date(1372700873 * 1000)
// => Mon Jul 01 2013 13:47:53 GMT-0400 (EDT)
</code></pre>

Once you go over the rate limit you will receive an error response:

<pre class="terminal">
HTTP/1.1 403 Forbidden
Date: Tue, 20 Aug 2013 14:50:41 GMT
Status: 403 Forbidden
X-RateLimit-Limit: 60
X-RateLimit-Remaining: 0
X-RateLimit-Reset: 1377013266

{
    "message": "API rate limit exceeded. See https://developer.github.com/v3/#rate-limiting for details."
}
</pre>

You can also [check your rate limit status](/v3/rate_limit) without incurring an
API hit.
<br>

### Unauthenticated rate limited requests

If you need to make unauthenticated calls but need to use a higher rate limit
associated with your OAuth application, you can send over your client ID and
secret in the query string.

<pre class="terminal">
$ curl -i 'https://api.github.com/users/whatever?client_id=xxxx&client_secret=yyyy'

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 01 Jul 2013 17:27:06 GMT
Status: 200 OK
X-RateLimit-Limit: 5000
X-RateLimit-Remaining: 4966
X-RateLimit-Reset: 1372700873
</pre>

This method should only be used for server-to-server calls. You should never
share your client secret with anyone or include it in client-side browser code.

### Staying within the rate limit

If you are using Basic Authentication or OAuth, and you are exceeding
your rate limit, you can likely fix the issue by caching API responses
and using [conditional requests](#conditional-requests).

If you're using conditional requests and still exceeding your rate
limit, please [contact us][support] to request a
higher rate limit for your OAuth application.

## User Agent Required

All API requests MUST include a valid `User-Agent` header. Requests with no `User-Agent`
header will be rejected. We request that you use your GitHub username, or the name of your
application, for the `User-Agent` header value. This allows us to contact you if there are problems.

Here's an example:

<pre class="terminal">
User-Agent: Awesome-Octocat-App
</pre>

If you provide an invalid `User-Agent` header, you will receive a `403 Forbidden` response:

<pre class="terminal">
$ curl -iH 'User-Agent: ' https://api.github.com/meta
HTTP/1.0 403 Forbidden
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Request forbidden by administrative rules.
Please make sure your request has a User-Agent header.
Check https://developer.github.com for other possible causes.
</pre>

## Conditional requests

Most responses return an `ETag` header. Many responses also return a `Last-Modified` header. You can use the values
of these headers to make subsequent requests to those resources using the
`If-None-Match` and `If-Modified-Since` headers, respectively. If the resource
has not changed, the server will return a `304 Not Modified`. Also note: making
a conditional request and receiving a 304 response does not count against your
[Rate Limit](#rate-limiting), so we encourage you to use it whenever possible.

<pre class="terminal">
$ curl -i https://api.github.com/user
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Cache-Control: private, max-age=60
ETag: "644b5b0155e6404a9cc4bd9d8b1ae730"
Last-Modified: Thu, 05 Jul 2012 15:31:30 GMT
Status: 200 OK
Vary: Accept, Authorization, Cookie
X-RateLimit-Limit: 5000
X-RateLimit-Remaining: 4996
X-RateLimit-Reset: 1372700873

$ curl -i https://api.github.com/user -H 'If-None-Match: "644b5b0155e6404a9cc4bd9d8b1ae730"'
HTTP/1.1 304 Not Modified
Cache-Control: private, max-age=60
ETag: "644b5b0155e6404a9cc4bd9d8b1ae730"
Last-Modified: Thu, 05 Jul 2012 15:31:30 GMT
Status: 304 Not Modified
Vary: Accept, Authorization, Cookie
X-RateLimit-Limit: 5000
X-RateLimit-Remaining: 4996
X-RateLimit-Reset: 1372700873

$ curl -i https://api.github.com/user -H "If-Modified-Since: Thu, 05 Jul 2012 15:31:30 GMT"
HTTP/1.1 304 Not Modified
Cache-Control: private, max-age=60
Last-Modified: Thu, 05 Jul 2012 15:31:30 GMT
Status: 304 Not Modified
Vary: Accept, Authorization, Cookie
X-RateLimit-Limit: 5000
X-RateLimit-Remaining: 4996
X-RateLimit-Reset: 1372700873
</pre>

## Cross Origin Resource Sharing

The API supports Cross Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) for AJAX requests.
you can read the [CORS W3C working draft](http://www.w3.org/TR/cors), or
[this intro](http://code.google.com/p/html5security/wiki/CrossOriginRequestSecurity) from the
HTML 5 Security Guide.

Here's a sample request sent from a browser hitting
`http://example.com`:

    $ curl -i https://api.github.com -H "Origin: http://example.com"
    HTTP/1.1 302 Found

Any domain that is registered as an OAuth Application is accepted.
Here's a sample request for a browser hitting [Travis CI](http://travis-ci.org/):

    $ curl -i https://api.github.com -H "Origin: http://travis-ci.org"
    HTTP/1.1 302 Found
    Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *
    Access-Control-Expose-Headers: ETag, Link, X-RateLimit-Limit, X-RateLimit-Remaining, X-RateLimit-Reset, X-OAuth-Scopes, X-Accepted-OAuth-Scopes
    Access-Control-Allow-Credentials: true

This is what the CORS preflight request looks like:

    $ curl -i https://api.github.com -H "Origin: http://travis-ci.org" -X OPTIONS
    HTTP/1.1 204 No Content
    Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *
    Access-Control-Allow-Headers: Authorization, Content-Type, If-Match, If-Modified-Since, If-None-Match, If-Unmodified-Since, X-Requested-With
    Access-Control-Allow-Methods: GET, POST, PATCH, PUT, DELETE
    Access-Control-Expose-Headers: ETag, Link, X-RateLimit-Limit, X-RateLimit-Remaining, X-RateLimit-Reset, X-OAuth-Scopes, X-Accepted-OAuth-Scopes
    Access-Control-Max-Age: 86400
    Access-Control-Allow-Credentials: true

## JSON-P Callbacks

You can send a `?callback` parameter to any GET call to have the results
wrapped in a JSON function.  This is typically used when browsers want
to embed GitHub content in web pages by getting around cross domain
issues.  The response includes the same data output as the regular API,
plus the relevant HTTP Header information.

<pre class="terminal">
$ curl https://api.github.com?callback=foo

/**/foo({
  "meta": {
    "status": 200,
    "X-RateLimit-Limit": "5000",
    "X-RateLimit-Remaining": "4966",
    "X-RateLimit-Reset": "1372700873",
    "Link": [ // pagination headers and other links
      ["https://api.github.com?page=2", {"rel": "next"}]
    ]
  },
  "data": {
    // the data
  }
})
</pre>

You can write a JavaScript handler to process the callback. Here's a minimal example you can try out:

    <html>
    <head>
    <script type="text/javascript">
    function foo(response) {
      var meta = response.meta;
      var data = response.data;
      console.log(meta);
      console.log(data);
    }

    var script = document.createElement('script');
    script.src = 'https://api.github.com?callback=foo';

    document.getElementsByTagName('head')[0].appendChild(script);
    </script>
    </head>

    <body>
      <p>Open up your browser's console.</p>
    </body>
    </html>

All of the headers are the same String value as the HTTP Headers with one
notable exception: Link.  Link headers are pre-parsed for you and come
through as an array of `[url, options]` tuples.

A link that looks like this:

    Link: <url1>; rel="next", <url2>; rel="foo"; bar="baz"

... will look like this in the Callback output:

<%= json "Link" => [
  ["url1", {:rel => "next"}],
  ["url2", {:rel => "foo", :bar => "baz"}]] %>

## Timezones

Some requests allow for specifying timestamps or generate timestamps with time
zone information. We apply the following rules, in order of priority, to
determine timezone information for API calls.

#### Explicitly provide an ISO 8601 timestamp with timezone information

For API calls that allow for a timestamp to be specified, we use that exact
timestamp. An example of this is the [Commits API](/v3/git/commits).

These timestamps look something like `2014-02-27T15:05:06+01:00`. Also see
[this example](https://developer.github.com/v3/git/commits/#example-input) for
how these timestamps can be specified.

#### Using the `Time-Zone` header

It is possible to supply a `Time-Zone` header which defines a timezone according
to the [list of names from the Olson database](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones).

    $ curl -H "Time-Zone: Europe/Amsterdam" -X POST https://api.github.com/repos/github/linguist/contents/new_file.md

This means that we generate a timestamp for the moment your API call is made in
the timezone this header defines. For example, the [Contents API](/v3/repos/contents/)
generates a git commit for each addition or change and uses the current time
as the timestamp. This header will determine the timezone used for generating
that current timestamp.

#### Using the last known timezone for the user

If no `Time-Zone` header is specified and you make an authenticated call to the
API, we use the last known timezone for the authenticated user. The last know
timezone is updated whenever you browse the GitHub.com website.

#### UTC

If the steps above don't result in any information, we use UTC as the timezone
to create the git commit.

[support]: https://github.com/contact?form[subject]=APIv3
[pagination-guide]: /guides/traversing-with-pagination
